
Below is an auto-generated summary of the contents of a Dandiset. It includes both metadata and a summary of the contents of the NWB files.

Please summarize the experiment in two or three paragraphs in the style of a scientific abstract touching on the likely purpose of the experiment.

Then give a description of what data are available in the NWB files.

Finally provide a list of up to ten keywords.

You should not refer to "Type X" since these are just internal labels used for communicating the breakdown of NWB files.

The summaries are from representative NWB files for each type, so keep that in mind when making your description. So for example, the timestamp or session ID is not going to be representative of all NWB files of that type.

Please provide your response in raw markdown suitable for copy/paste into a .md document.


id: DANDI:000566/draft
name: ASAP4 data
contributor: [{'name': 'Lin, Michael', 'email': 'michaelzlin@gmail.com', 'roleName': ['dcite:ContactPerson'], 'schemaKey': 'Person', 'affiliation': [], 'includeInCitation': True}]
description: Raw data for "A positively tuned voltage indicator for extended electrical recordings in the brain", Nature Methods 2023, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-01913-z
assetsSummary: {'species': [{'name': 'Drosophila melanogaster - Fruit fly', 'schemaKey': 'SpeciesType', 'identifier': 'http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_7227'}], 'approach': [{'name': 'microscopy approach; cell population imaging', 'schemaKey': 'ApproachType'}], 'schemaKey': 'AssetsSummary', 'dataStandard': [{'name': 'Neurodata Without Borders (NWB)', 'schemaKey': 'StandardsType', 'identifier': 'RRID:SCR_015242'}], 'numberOfBytes': 631788071, 'numberOfFiles': 1, 'numberOfSubjects': 1, 'variableMeasured': ['ImagingPlane', 'OpticalChannel', 'TwoPhotonSeries'], 'measurementTechnique': [{'name': 'two-photon microscopy technique', 'schemaKey': 'MeasurementTechniqueType'}, {'name': 'surgical technique', 'schemaKey': 'MeasurementTechniqueType'}]}

Dandiset 000566 has 1 NWB files.
1 of these NWB files are of type 1.


Here is a summary of the type 1 NWB files:
  Group / (NWBFile) 
  Group /acquisition/TwoPhotonSeries (TwoPhotonSeries) Imaging data from two-photon excitation microscopy.
  Group /acquisition/TwoPhotonSeries/imaging_plane (ImagingPlane) 
  Group /acquisition/TwoPhotonSeries/imaging_plane/OpticalChannel (OpticalChannel) 
  Group /acquisition/TwoPhotonSeries/imaging_plane/device (Device) 
  file_create_date: ['2023-06-19T15:03:04.820896-07:00']
  Group /general/devices/Microscope (Device) 
  Group /general/optophysiology/ImagingPlane (ImagingPlane) 
  Group /general/optophysiology/ImagingPlane/OpticalChannel (OpticalChannel) 
  Group /general/optophysiology/ImagingPlane/device (Device) 
  Group /general/subject (Subject) 
  identifier: 8c91bcd8-82be-4b61-95ea-c2ea3aef124f
  session_description: Auto-generated by neuroconv
  session_start_time: 2023-06-18T14:30:00-07:00
  timestamps_reference_time: 2023-06-18T14:30:00-07:00
