
Below is an auto-generated summary of the contents of a Dandiset. It includes both metadata and a summary of the contents of the NWB files.

Please summarize the experiment in two or three paragraphs in the style of a scientific abstract touching on the likely purpose of the experiment.

Then give a description of what data are available in the NWB files.

Finally provide a list of up to ten keywords.

You should not refer to "Type X" since these are just internal labels used for communicating the breakdown of NWB files.

The summaries are from representative NWB files for each type, so keep that in mind when making your description. So for example, the timestamp or session ID is not going to be representative of all NWB files of that type.

Please provide your response in raw markdown suitable for copy/paste into a .md document.


id: DANDI:001341/draft
name: Barrel cortex electrophysiology during tactile VR whisker-guided navigation
contributor: [{'name': 'Armstrong, Alex', 'email': 'alexga2@illinois.edu', 'roleName': ['dcite:ContactPerson'], 'schemaKey': 'Person', 'affiliation': [], 'includeInCitation': True}, {'name': 'Vlasov, Yurii', 'email': 'yvlasov@illinois.edu', 'roleName': ['dcite:ProjectLeader'], 'schemaKey': 'Person', 'includeInCitation': True}]
description: Electrophysiology in the C2 barrel column of wS1 in mice during continuous tactile VR navigation using only the C2 whiskers. Mice are head-fixed on a suspended ball, with two walls placed either side of the mouse. The lateral movement of these walls is coupled in a closed loop real time system to the trajectory of the mouse so that when the mouse moves to the left, the walls move in from the left. This causes them to orient themselves in the middle of the virtual corridor. Mice are presented with turns to the left (contralateral stimulation to recording site) and right (ipsilateral to recording site) in the virtual environment in a completely unrewarded form of a 2AFC task. Trial structure consists of a 100cm closed loop baseline straight running trial, before an open loop 2 second turn to either the left or right. Mouse trajectories (forward and lateral distance and speed) calculated from ball tracking cameras using custom LabVIEW program.
assetsSummary: {'species': [{'name': 'Mus musculus - House mouse', 'schemaKey': 'SpeciesType', 'identifier': 'http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/NCBITaxon_10090'}], 'approach': [{'name': 'electrophysiological approach', 'schemaKey': 'ApproachType'}], 'schemaKey': 'AssetsSummary', 'dataStandard': [{'name': 'Neurodata Without Borders (NWB)', 'schemaKey': 'StandardsType', 'identifier': 'RRID:SCR_015242'}], 'numberOfBytes': 693328344, 'numberOfFiles': 2, 'numberOfSubjects': 2, 'variableMeasured': ['Units'], 'measurementTechnique': [{'name': 'spike sorting technique', 'schemaKey': 'MeasurementTechniqueType'}]}

Dandiset 001341 has 2 NWB files.
2 of these NWB files are of type 1.


Here is a summary of the type 1 NWB files:
  Group / (NWBFile) 
  Group /acquisition/distance_for (TimeSeries) Forward distance (cm) in trial
  Group /acquisition/distance_lat (TimeSeries) Lateral distance (cm) in trial
  Group /acquisition/speed_for_smooth (TimeSeries) Forward speed (cm/s)
  Group /acquisition/speed_lat_smooth (TimeSeries) Lateral speed (cm/s)
  Group /acquisition/trial (TimeSeries) Trial number
  Group /acquisition/ts_local (TimeSeries) Local timing in trial
  file_create_date: ['2024-10-11T00:00:00-05:00']
  experiment_description: Barrel cortex electrophysiology during tactile VR whisker-guided navigation
  experimenter: ['Armstrong, Alex' 'Vlasov, Yurii']
  institution: University of Illinois
  keywords: ['barrel cortex' 'behavior' 'VR' 'S1' 'decision making']
  lab: Vlasov BioLab
  protocol: 20138
  Group /general/subject (Subject) 
  identifier: 489
  Group /intervals/trials (TimeIntervals) experimental trials
  Dataset /intervals/trials/id (ElementIdentifiers)  | shape = (1611,) | dtype = int32
  Dataset /intervals/trials/start_time (VectorData) Start time of epoch, in seconds | shape = (1611,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /intervals/trials/stop_time (VectorData) Stop time of epoch, in seconds | shape = (1611,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /intervals/trials/trial_type (VectorData) The tactile stimuli during the trial, closed loop straight run or open loop turn | shape = (1611,) | dtype = object
  session_description: 489
  session_start_time: 2022-07-08T00:00:00-05:00
  timestamps_reference_time: 2022-07-08T00:00:00-05:00
  Group /units (Units) Autogenerated by NWBFile
  Dataset /units/PT_ratio (VectorData) PT_ratio | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/amplitude_cutoff (VectorData) Estimate of miss rate based on amplitude histogram. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/amplitude_waveform (VectorData) Amplitude waveform | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/cumulative_drift (VectorData) Cumulative change in spike depth throughout recording. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/d_prime (VectorData) Classification accuracy based on LDA. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/depth (VectorData) Distance from bottom of layer 6 | shape = (61,) | dtype = int64
  Dataset /units/duration (VectorData) Duration | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/epoch_name_quality_metrics (VectorData) From ecephys | shape = (61,) | dtype = object
  Dataset /units/epoch_name_waveform_metrics (VectorData) From ecephys | shape = (61,) | dtype = object
  Dataset /units/firing_rate (VectorData) Mean spike rate in an epoch. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/id (ElementIdentifiers)  | shape = (61,) | dtype = int64
  Dataset /units/isi_viol (VectorData) Rate of refractory-period violations. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/isolation_distance (VectorData) Distance to nearest cluster in Mahalanobis space. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/l_ratio (VectorData) The Mahalanobis distance and chi-squared inverse cdf (given the assumption that the spikes in the cluster distribute normally in each dimension) are used to find the probability of cluster membership for each spike. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/layer (VectorData) Cortical layer C2 barrel column | shape = (61,) | dtype = object
  Dataset /units/max_drift (VectorData) Maximum change in spike depth throughout recording. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/nn_hit_rate (VectorData) Non-parametric estimate of unit contamination. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/nn_miss_rate (VectorData) Standard metric for cluster overlap. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/peak_channel (VectorData) Channel on the probe. | shape = (61,) | dtype = int64
  Dataset /units/presence_ratio (VectorData) Fraction of epoch in which spikes are present. | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/recovery_slope (VectorData) Recovery slope | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/repolarization_slope (VectorData) Repolarization slope | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/snr (VectorData) Signal to noise ratio | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/spike_times (VectorData) the spike times for each unit | shape = (2704962,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/spike_times_index (VectorIndex) Index for VectorData 'spike_times' | shape = (61,) | dtype = uint32
  Dataset /units/spread (VectorData) Spread | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/unit_type (VectorData) Excitatory or inhibitory | shape = (61,) | dtype = object
  Dataset /units/velocity_above (VectorData) Velocity above | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
  Dataset /units/velocity_below (VectorData) Velocity below | shape = (61,) | dtype = float64
